# IMAD5112-ASSIGNMENT12MY HISTORY APP
History app is an application of computer software that has been created specifically to carry out specific tasks in this app. It has resulted in taking a person’s age as an input and then matched the age to the ages of different people in history that have passed away. 
Now that Technology has improved, my history App is developed within Android studio using Kotlin that is known to be the easiest programming language in programming and falls under the faculty of ICT. This ensures that students will not find it difficult to interact with my history app as it will be beneficial for them. Students will benefit educationally since this app is based on history people that have passed away. It will not only be educational but it will also provide with credible and reliable information that will result in helping students.
The aim for this App is for students to be knowledge enough to engage with it and have fun. By gaining knowledge and being able to understand, may also contribute in inspiring student to pursue their studies and graduate in historical or technology career fields. This App might help many of them to willingly know more about people in history who have passed since most of 2000’s do not know anything about those people.
For designing this ‘MY HISTORY APP’, I started by selecting an “Empty Views Activity” for my user interface. I continued and made use of the text and buttons in my empty view activity that I have selected. On the text I made three TextViews and one EditTest and resumed with two different names of Button.
TextViews:
First TextView – It is for the heading “MY history APP”. I made use of bold and larger letters to emphasis that this app, it is about history mixed with technology. This resulted in having to change the id to “textView4” and it to be a string variable.
Second TextView – it is for the “ageNumber” which is a string variable and has resulted in having an id of “textView5”. “AgeNumber” will also be in larger numbers because if it was small it will be difficult for the student to see what number it is that is displayed.
Third TextView – it is for “Show Result”. I made use medium letters to emphasis that when the app is running the result should appear on “Show Result”. This has resulted in changing its id into “txtResult” so that it does not appear as an error when coding. This TextView is also a string variable.
BUTTONS:
First Button – is used for “Clear”. “Clear” is in medium letters to emphasis to the student that if they want to clear whatever they have typed or is an outcome is wrong or a mistake then they should be able to clear and start typing the correct thing. This has resulted in having to change the id to “btnClear” so it will be much easier when coding. It has also resulted in being string variable.

Second Button – is used for “Generate History”. “Generate History” is in medium letters as a style appearance which emphasis to the student that they should Generate the ages of people in history who have passed away by pressing on the button “Generate History”. This has resulted for this button’s id to change into “btnGenerate” which help in not giving an error but instead being much easier when coding. “Generate History” is also a string variable.
EditText:
It is for the input “number”. It is in larger letters to emphasis the number that should be entered by the user or student. This “EditText” is an integer variable that has resulted in having to change the id into an “ageNumber”. By changing the id the code will be simpler and understandable for student.
Therefore making use of such design and attributes, the color of the “Empty View Activity” background had been changed to a mustered color. The color of the purple buttons stated previously had to change to an orange color. So overall the colors in “MY HISTORY APP” are mustered, Orange, White and Black. I made use of those colors because they represent “HISTORY’ and will most definitely attract the students, also to be entertained.
I continued by creating a code for my project. In my code I made use of a “when” condition and “else” because age is an input of the whole project. I continued and made use of people in history who have passed away and those people are: Senzo Meyiwa, Lebo Mathosa, Princess Diana, Luther Vandross, Michael Jackson, Mangosuthu Buthelezi, Queen Elizabeth, Mother Teresa, Whitney Houston and Joe Mafela. I then entered the ages that they have passed on between the ranges 20 to 100. Anything below or above the range with be declared as an error. By having errors in a logic, it will cause the app not to run or give out some problems.
When the logic or code was done, I went to GitHub to create a new repository and named my assignment for this app, and initialized the README File so that I can upload my history app’s activity.main.xml and mainActivity.kt. The link to my repository is ST10444070/IMAD5112-ASSIGNMENT12 (github.com). All my files for anything related to this project will be pushed there to make it easier. 
Overall the report’s purpose was to briefly comprehend the purpose mentioned above about the app, its designing: TextView, EditText, Buttons and the color that represent history, also the utilization of GitHub to create a new repository and GitHub action. This History app will ensure that students gain enough knowledge and have fun using this App as it was mentioned previously that it is credible and Reliable to them.  
